Solves capi v1beta2 bugs (#1170)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: asciidoc/guides/clusterclass.adoc

* Improved Scalability and Automation Capabilities
* Declarative Management and Robust Version Control

image::clusterclass-v1beta2.png[scaledwidth=100%]

== Example of current CAPI provisioning file

> The deployment of a Kubernetes cluster leveraging the Cluster API (CAPI) and the RKE2 and CAPM3 providers requires definition of several custom resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying a Kubernetes cluster leveraging Cluster API (CAPI), RKE2, and CAPM3 providers requires you to define several custom resources.
```

These resources define the desired state of the cluster and its underlying infrastructure, enabling CAPI to orchestrate the provisioning and management lifecycle.

> The code snippet below illustrates the resource types that must be configured to instantiate a kubernetes cluster with only control plane nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code snippet below illustrates the resource types that must be configured to instantiate a Kubernetes cluster with only control plane nodes.:
```

* **Metal3Cluster**: This resource defines infrastructure-level attributes unique to Metal3, for example the external endpoint through which the Kubernetes API server will be accessible.
* **RKE2ControlPlane**: The RKE2ControlPlane resource defines the characteristics and behavior of the cluster's control plane nodes. Within this specification, parameters such as the desired number of control plane replicas (crucial for ensuring high availability and fault tolerance), the specific Kubernetes distribution version (aligned with the chosen RKE2 release), and the strategy for rolling out updates to the control plane components are configured. Additionally, this resource dictates the Container Network Interface (CNI) to be employed within the cluster and facilitates the injection of agent-specific configurations, often leveraging Ignition for seamless and automated provisioning of the RKE2 agents on the control plane nodes.

> * **Metal3MachineTemplate**: This resource acts as a blueprint for the creation of the individual compute instances that will form the control-plane nodes of the Kubernetes cluster, defining the image to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Metal3MachineTemplate**: This resource serves as a blueprint for creating the individual compute instances that form the cluster's control-plane nodes, defining the image they will use.
```

Author: I take your suggestions ... but I just realized there is a mistake in my change proposal: this blueprint does not specify the image to be used !

Updating them as follows:

` * **Metal3MachineTemplate**: This resource serves as a blueprint for creating the individual compute instances that form the cluster's control plane nodes.`

Note I have replaced `control-plane` by `control plane`; as you raised in a following comment I was not being consistent, now I am being:

- using `control plane` in paragraphs referring to this role of a Kubernetes cluster's node
- but using `control-plane` when it is a value given to a yaml field/property (as actually defined by the code where this field/property is defined)

Reviewer: Thank you for the explanation.  :)

> * **Metal3MachineTemplate**: This resource serves as a blueprint for creating the individual compute instances that form the cluster's control plane nodes.
> * **Metal3DataTemplate**: Complementing the Metal3MachineTemplate, the Metal3DataTemplate resource enables additional metadata to be specified for the newly provisioned machine instances.
> 

Reviewer: Add a "+" sign to correct indentation. 
```suggestion
* **Metal3DataTemplate**: Complementing the Metal3MachineTemplate, the Metal3DataTemplate resource enables additional metadata to be specified for the newly provisioned machine instances.
+
```

Author: Adding this (thanks)

  clusterName: emea-spa-cluster-3
  metaData:
    objectNames:
    - key: name
      object: machine
    - key: local-hostname
      object: machine
    - key: local_hostname
      object: machine

----

NOTE: Adding the label `cluster-api.cattle.io/rancher-auto-import: "true"` to a `Cluster` API object in the `cluster.x-k8s.io` group will import the cluster
into Rancher (by creating a corresponding Rancher `Cluster` object in the `management.cattle.io` group).

> See the https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/cluster-api/latest/en/user/rancher-cluster-registration.html#_how_to_register_a_capi_cluster_in_rancher_using_turtles_auto_import[Cluster API documentation] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
Adding the label `cluster-api.cattle.io/rancher-auto-import: "true"` to a `Cluster` API object in the `cluster.x-k8s.io` group will import the cluster into Rancher (by creating a corresponding Rancher `Cluster` object in the `management.cattle.io` group).
See the https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/cluster-api/latest/en/user/rancher-cluster-registration.html#_how_to_register_a_capi_cluster_in_rancher_using_turtles_auto_import[Cluster API documentation] for more information.
====
```

== Transforming the CAPI provisioning file to ClusterClass

=== ClusterClass definition

> The following code defines a ClusterClass resource, a declarative template for consistently deploying a specific type of Kubernetes clusters. This specification includes common infrastructure and control plane configurations, enabling efficient provisioning and uniform lifecycle management across a cluster fleet.

Reviewer: Did you mean "specific types of Kubernetes clusters" or "a specific type of Kubernetes cluster"? 

```suggestion
The following code defines a ClusterClass resource, a declarative template for consistently deploying a specific type of Kubernetes cluster. This specification includes common infrastructure and control plane configurations, enabling efficient provisioning and uniform lifecycle management across a cluster fleet.
```

**OR**

```suggestion
The following code defines a ClusterClass resource, a declarative template for consistently deploying specific types of Kubernetes clusters. This specification includes common infrastructure and control plane configurations, enabling efficient provisioning and uniform lifecycle management across a cluster fleet.
```

Author: Thanks, it is the second option (updating as you propose)

There are some variables defined in the following clusterclass example, that will be replaced during the cluster instantiation process using the real values requested for each cluster instance.
The following variables are used in the example:

* `metallbHelmChartVersion`: This is the version of the MetalLB Helm chart to be used
* `endpointCopierOperatorHelmChartVersion`: This is the version of the Endpoint Copier Operator Helm chart to be used
* `controlPlaneMachineTemplateImageURL`: This is the URL of the image to be used for the control plane machines
* `controlPlaneMachineTemplateHostSelectorDeployRegion`: This is the `deploy-region` host selector value for the control plane machines
* `controlPlaneMachineTemplateHostSelectorClusterType`: This is the `cluster-type` host selector value for the control plane machines

> * `controlPlaneMachineTemplateDataTemplateName`: This is the name of the `Metal3DataTemplate` API object to use for the control plane machines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `controlPlaneMachineTemplateDataTemplateName`: This specifies the name of the `Metal3DataTemplate` API object to use for the control-plane machines
```

Is it "control-plane" or "control plane"? Both have been used. If you can clarify, that will be great :)

Author: I am updating as you propose after replacing `control-plane` by `control plane` (as explained some comments above). Thanks for having also detected & raised this `control-plane` vs `control plane` inconsistency

Author: I have actually modified the text for all these variables to be more exact (indicating also which of them are optionals and which are required and, for the optionals, the resulting behavior in case they are not set):

* `metallbHelmChartVersion`: This optional variable allows to specify the version of the `MetalLB` Helm chart to be deployed in the cluster; when not provided, the `MetalLB` Helm chart will not be deployed.
* `endpointCopierOperatorHelmChartVersion`: This optional variable allows to specify the version of the `Endpoint Copier Operator` Helm chart to be deployed in the cluster (when a version for the `MetalLB` Helm chart has been also provided); when not provided, the `Endpoint Copier Operator` Helm chart will not be deployed.
* `controlPlaneMachineTemplateImageURL`: This required variable allows to specify the URL of the image to be used to provision the control plane machines.
* `controlPlaneMachineTemplateHostSelectorDeployRegion`: This required variable allows to specify the `deploy-region` host selector value for the control plane machines.
* `controlPlaneMachineTemplateHostSelectorClusterType`: This required variable allows to specify the `cluster-type` host selector value for the control plane machines.
* `controlPlaneMachineTemplateDataTemplateName`: This required variable allows to specify the name of the `Metal3DataTemplate` API object to use for the control plane machines.
* `controlPlaneEndpointHost`: This required variable allows to specify the host name or IP address of the control plane endpoint.
* `tlsSan`: This required variable allows to specify the list of TLS Subject Alternative Names for the control plane endpoint.

* `controlPlaneEndpointHost`: This is the host name or IP address of the control plane endpoint
* `tlsSan`: This is the TLS Subject Alternative Name for the control plane endpoint

> The clusterclass definition file is defined based on the 4 following resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The clusterclass definition file consists of the following four resources:
```

* `tlsSan`: This required variable allows to specify the list of TLS Subject Alternative Names for the control plane endpoint.

The clusterclass definition file consists of the following four resources:

* **ClusterClass**: This resource encapsulates the entire cluster class definition, including the control plane and infrastructure templates. Moreover, it include the list of variables that will be replaced during the instantiation process (and defines the patches using them).
* **RKE2ControlPlaneTemplate**: This resource defines the control plane template, specifying the desired configuration for the control plane nodes. Also, some parameters will be replaced with the right values during the instantiation process.
* **Metal3ClusterTemplate**: This resource defines the infrastructure template, specifying the desired configuration for the underlying infrastructure. It includes parameters such as the control plane endpoint and the cloudProviderEnabled (true|false) flag. Also, some parameters will be replaced with the right values during the instantiation process.

> * **Metal3MachineTemplate**: This resource defines the machine template blueprint for the control plane nodes, providing the placeholders for those parameters to be replaced with the right values during the instantiation process.
> 
> 

Reviewer: Add a "+" sign to correct indentation.
```suggestion
* **Metal3MachineTemplate**: This resource defines the machine template blueprint for the control plane nodes, providing the placeholders for those parameters to be replaced with the right values during the instantiation process.
+
```

Author: Adding this (thanks)

  clusterName: emea-spa-cluster-3
  metaData:
    objectNames:
    - key: name
      object: machine
    - key: local-hostname
      object: machine
    - key: local_hostname
      object: machine

----

NOTE: Adding the label `cluster-api.cattle.io/rancher-auto-import: "true"` to the `Cluster` API object in the `cluster.x-k8s.io` group will import the cluster
into Rancher (by creating a corresponding Rancher `Cluster` object in the `management.cattle.io` group).

> See the https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/cluster-api/latest/en/user/rancher-cluster-registration.html#_how_to_register_a_capi_cluster_in_rancher_using_turtles_auto_import[Cluster API documentation] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
Adding the label `cluster-api.cattle.io/rancher-auto-import: "true"` to the `Cluster` API object in the `cluster.x-k8s.io` group will import the cluster into Rancher (by creating a corresponding Rancher `Cluster` object in the `management.cattle.io` group).
See the https://documentation.suse.com/cloudnative/cluster-api/latest/en/user/rancher-cluster-registration.html#_how_to_register_a_capi_cluster_in_rancher_using_turtles_auto_import[Cluster API documentation] for more information.
====
```

> This approach allows for a more streamlined process, deploying a cluster with only 2 resources once you have defined the clusterclass blueprints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach streamlines the process, allowing you to deploy a cluster using only two resources once the clusterclass blueprints are defined."
```
